good morning hello
hey guys can everyone hear me
okay hey guys welcome to rs application
development um if you can hear me
can you please raise your hand so in
teamview there's a racehand
or maybe send a message either way it's
fine ah thank you very much
thank you okay cool awesome and uh
welcome to rs application development my
name is
jack and i'll be your tutor
for this uh for this semester
and uh yeah uh uh this is lab one
and uh let's let's work through um
some uh let's walk through some coding
together okay
so let me share my screen
give me a sec
all right and uh screen share
i'm just trying to share my screen sorry
give me
one quick second
okay there we go
okay can you guys see my screen can you
please
uh raise your hand if you can
or is it blank
okay you can see my screen right
and that that is that slides or is that
blank ship slides
okay all right um all right okay
let's uh let's get started first of all
welcome to rs application development
uh this is lab one as mentioned my name
is jack
and i'll be your tutor for uh for this
semester and we
we have this wonderful course we have
this wonderful industry of ios
application development
since 2007 and thanks to
this great gentleman here steve jobs
introduced iphone
and since then uh the whole ecosystem
has
uh uh has grown a lot and now
uh now thanks to iphone we have uh
ios application development and this and
that is
what we are gonna learn that is what we
are gonna learn for
uh for for this semester okay for this
semester
now if i were to categorize um
the step um sort of uh if i if i can
uh if i may categorize those timelines
into sort of stages uh i would call them
three stages
in the first first is the stone age okay
stone age in stone age
uh iphone uh ios application development
did not have a specific language
and everything sort of put together
in a very basic way and in a stone age
you might be
some representative of it might be
objective
c uh that's the old older programming
language
that we rarely use anymore and
we also had things like xib
xib or nib uh the
file extensions for the for the
photographical files which we are not
gonna
go into uh much in this course okay so
these are
older sort of now deprecated
technologies that's that was there
uh it's important for you to know that
um uh
they were there and so that you know in
the interview or when you
read uh online helps you see those you
know that oh okay so these are
older technologies you know that they
exist but that's
um uh moving forward that's
i wouldn't go into uh too much detail in
objective c and xrb
okay i can coding them i know how to
code them but
for the purpose of this course we will
be going into modern age
okay we'll be going into modern age in
the modern age
we have a swift programming language
okay swift programming language and if i
remember correctly the latest version is
a swift
five okay swept five uh swift as apple's
attempt
um to make developer life easier
because in a stone age objective c was
quite painful to write and quite painful
to
learn quite very painful to debug okay
now with the introduction of swift
uh we can we can write programming
languages
a lot it's a lot easier it's a lot
easier to learn
it's a more comfortable to um it's a
little comfortable to debug
and it's overall speaking it's just
a lot nicer to work with and we will be
learning this programming language in
this course okay swift
and uh it's also important to note that
swift
has as mentioned has different versions
so one two three four five
mainly write the projects now mainly
uses four or five
and these two versions and and future
versions should be compatible
uh already but when you are reading
online resources
sometimes sometimes you might see swift
one two and a three and uh
how do you know if it's sort of one two
three or maybe four five
well very easy uh you can copy paste
that code
into your xcode which i'll show you
later okay
and xcode will tell you whether you have
the older syntax
or newer syntax and if you got the older
syntax it will tell you
how to migrate okay so if you do see
some prompt about
language versioning know that it's
normal and do not panic
okay do not panic it's quite normal
now um we also have uh
in the modern age we also have storybook
nowadays storybook
storybook is a it's a graphical
interface
it's a drag and drop sort of interface
it allows us
to create those uh those app
screens very easily by using drag and
drop
and we will be looking at will be
learning how to
how to use storybook uh in in
probably three to four weeks uh three to
four weeks time
and for assignment for assignment one
for the first assignment we will be
focusing on swift only
okay so don't worry about swift uh don't
worry about storybook for now
we will be focusing on swift for the
first few weeks
okay now into the future
um ios uh is a well apple
ios is a actively developed
um product so there will be
new features um future for example uh
you you might you might um when you're
searching around you might see
things like rx swift or you might see
things like swift ui that's
one of the later or latest way to write
uis
now we will not be uh we will not be
covering
uh too much of those and uh we will
mainly be covering
swift and the storybook okay mainly be
current swift and storybook
so it might be like jack why why are we
covering the future ones
because uh like any uh like any new
technology the latest might not always
be the greatest
uh it depends on adoption okay so i've
been
i've been working in the industry for a
long time i can tell you
even now there are still many big
applications still have
the legacy objective-c coding it okay
newer
newer usually is better but it depends
on adoption
so to ensure that we so to ensure that
what you learn um you can take what you
learn and apply that straight away
we will be going through the modern age
which is
swift in a storybook in this course
of course uh if you have extra time if
you feel adventurous
and you want to learn more uh please you
have my blessing
and please do please definitely
explore them if you have extra time and
if you have questions
uh let me know uh i will definitely um
i'll
definitely try to help you out there but
as a main content
for all those labs we'll be focusing on
swift
in a storybook okay so
uh that's a quick overview of uh
where we were and where we are okay
now how's everyone feeling um if if
if everyone's okay with that uh give me
a
can you please raise your hand in the
zoom uh sorry zoom zoom uh microsoft
team
cool thank you i see lots of hands
racing oh this is
this is fun all these little hands
racing cool awesome
now um ours this
industry whole industry um well it's
gone
industry-wise we have it then we have
software engineering then we have
mobile applications software engineering
then we have ios
application engineering so this is a
very specialized
field okay this is a very specialized
field it's a very fun field
to be working i've been working
uh i've been working in this space since
2013.
i can tell you that it's it's the most
it's it's probably the best to industry
right now and the best industry to go
into just have a
search around um um the on the
work life balance on the salary on the
growth
on the general happiness you'll find
that
software engineers uh or your mobile
software engineers
are generally amongst the happiest
people right now uh
prior prior to covert and also post
coverage
so it's definitely a really good skill
to have it's a it's a very specialized
skill it's a very
uh popular and it becoming even more
popular
um sort of skill in the industry okay
so let me tell you a bit about myself
my name is jack uh i've been a polyglot
glock
software engineer uh since uh 2013.
uh what does polyglot mean polyglot just
means that
i work with or various technologies
okay so i can uh i in fun fact
ios is the first technolo is the first
software engineering field i picked up
back in 2013 and uh back then we
i i learned the the stone age
way of doing things that is uh
objective c and xib and back then we
didn't have any
uh or i didn't have any of these uh
course
back then we didn't even have ios so
i think we we didn't have any course on
doing ios
so what i had to do is i had to go to
reference
i had to go to a library and i got
myself a reference book
that thick literally that thick and i
literally
like go through all the pages and i
follow those textbooks
it's very slow it's very painful it's
very
uh um it's very unguided and
it's outdated very quickly in fact i
remember
just i think two or one years one or two
years later
apple introduced swift and the whole
objective c
the language the fundamental thing that
we use
to write program the whole language got
updated
so um so yeah
um books are definitely okay to learn
but
for for future first especially for
software engineering
personally i believe uh the best uh the
best way to learn is
as always by applying and this is what
i'm gonna
uh uh this is how the lab is gonna look
like
that is there will be a lot of um
there'll be probably less textbook
but a lot of a lot of hands-on
hands-on practice okay so anyway
um yeah a political engineer i've been
doing uh
software engineering since 2013. i
graduated from
uts master of it in 2018.
uh fun fact uh i did this very course i
did this very
ios engineering course in 2018 and it
was quite fun too
and it's quite fun satisfying and
grateful to see
universities having this course um
and uh it helped me to
to fill in all the all the messing
blocks because i
i taught myself how to how to write
software
and there are lots of there are
definitely little pieces of missing
blocks here and there
and by doing the course by doing the
degree it definitely
fulfilled all these little missing
pieces which is which is great
which is great uh you can find me on
linkedin if you
if you if you want and that's me uh
hobby
i am a fintech fanatic so i work on a
lot
a lot of fintech products uh i work i've
worked on
payments um i've worked on uh lending
products
so home i currently work at landy landy
landy.com.eu
um it's a it's a home loan platform um
and i'm uh i i am
the role as senior software engineer and
i primarily work on the front end for
that
i've also worked on other products like
uh financial trading products as well so
i do that
i i work most of technology i work on is
related to the financial services
industry
and i love it and i love it i'm
as a hobby i also like to write i also
like to go racing so
go cutting or sim racing uh in fact i
won my
i just won my first podium uh podium is
the top three i
won my first podium last friday
at the eastern critical cards it's been
a dream for
six months and i worked really hard for
it and finally got a podium
so there's prices there's champagnes
there's videos if i
we got time um i'll show you all about
i'll show you all about it later okay
so that's uh that's that's it about me
uh how uh how about let uh
please tell us a bit about yourself so
let's
let's uh go around the room um let's go
around the room and if you can admit
yourself
um can you please tell tell us
your name your hobby uh one of your
hobbies
and then pick the next person okay and
if you can i'm not sure if you all have
webcams but
um if you can please enable the enabled
webcam so
we can see if you don't have a webcam at
least
please upload a profile picture for your
team so that we can put a face to the
name and that will be very very helpful
okay all right i'm gonna pick the first
person
uh to start to start with how about
uh juan chen uh can you
can you please tell us a bit about
yourself
uh hello can you hear me
uh hello
hello uh i we can't hear you
at the moment i think you are muted
yourself but maybe
mike uh hello hello
hello
okay so while we wait for while we wait
for
uh juan to to figure out that mike
uh let's uh let's start let's start with
someone else
how about li jiahua are you are you
there
um okay does anyone have mic
config i think all computers should have
all laptop would have
mics by now but might not be the case uh
okay i'm gonna i'm gonna randomly pick
let me know if you can
actually uh if you if you have your mic
ready like if you're on laptop you
should it should be there
can you please raise your hand
cool awesome thank you thank you uh
morning
let's uh morning please tell us about by
yourself
sure my name is molin and i'm from china
it's currently 7 21 am now
well my hobby is playing basketball i'm
quite well i'm
190 centimeters so
yeah that's me
i'm sorry why
um i seem to be having
is it me or okay did anyone else hear
mauling uh his mic my hands up if you
hear if you hear
mulling before like introduction because
i'm i didn't hear anything oh okay
might be it might be my mic issue then
um okay
all right i'm gonna i'm gonna fix i'm
gonna fix
that all right let me think
quickly
um okay i'll i'll try to i've tried to
fix
my mic issue later um
and uh let me just have a look
how about this uh i'll go through i'll
go through the slides first and
let's do the let's do the intro later i
i wanna i do wanna
hear everyone so that i get to know
everyone okay so so bear
sorry uh bear with me and let's call
let's come back to
let's come back to this in a little bit
okay
all right so um about the labs
about the uh let me tell you
a bit about the labs okay now
you learn all the concepts you learn all
the knowledge
in the lecture and that is
uh that is great and for labs
here in the labs this is where you try
to break things
okay everyone's here to learn and
nobody is expected to be perfect nobody
is
expected to be to know anything okay
so when you come into the lab uh here is
where
we write code here's why we break the
code
here's where we learned how to debug and
here's
where we hopefully ultimately uh
uh get hands-on experience with coding
okay because trust me uh ultimately uh
for with software engineering um you
learn the most
from uh from from code okay concepts are
very very important you need to know
them before you write the code
but ultimately you learn the most
by practically writing code okay so
everyone when you come to the lab
uh please please if you have any
question feel free to stop me anytime
and ask um
after i figure out the the the audio
issue and
also um uh also
don't don't be afraid to break things in
fact
i encourage you i challenge you to break
things
uh if you are if you are um if you are
a beginner uh when you write bold if you
find things breaking
know that that's fine okay we are here
to learn
we are here to debug we are here to make
things work so if things didn't work
that's normal if things worked perfectly
then why are you here
okay now if you um on the other hand
if you are a advanced uh programmer you
already know
uh some programming you you can already
make things work
then i'll give you another challenge try
to break it
okay try to break it maybe change some
code here and there maybe look at your
code maybe look at your working code and
think about
how how can i make this code better
okay and then try to try to swap some
code around
refactor code around do some copy
pasting try to break your code
because trust me you learn the most by
fixing the code by debugging okay by
debugging
so so here in the lab it's a
it's a it's a safe place for you to
break things and
it's a helpful place where i and i can
help you
to to to to patch everything up
okay to patch everything up now this
is also a good time to give you um
two well um i can give you three tips
uh that these are the three places where
you can
look for help okay when you're
when something doesn't work okay when
something doesn't work
the first thing you do is that you calm
yourself
okay don't panic things doesn't work
that's normal
okay that's normal and we are here to
learn how to fix things how to patch
things up
so come yourself then look for the error
okay somewhere and i'll show you later
somewhere
in the x code you will be given uh the
error code you
you will know uh what errors are okay
so uh so find
any description find any error message
there might be
now step three step three is where
you go and look for help you can look
for help
in one of the three ways and
first thing you do is
take a guess take a guess what would be
if we are if you bump into issue what
would be the first
source um uh what would be the
first place to go if you want to look
for help
do we have a chat here we don't have a
chat here
okay uh unfortunately i can't see the
chat yet so
i i i'll have i'll be able to see the
chat
in the next week so um
yeah so the first place to look for help
if you guessed google you'll be right
okay
whenever code breaks whenever things
doesn't work
the first place to look for help is
always google
okay it's always google this is true for
for learn for studying in university
this is true for working in workplace
this is true for
um for any software engineering field
okay you'll find that this industry is a
very open industry and any problem you
bump into
likely someone else would have bumped
into it as well
okay someone else would have bumped into
it as well and they would have posted
questions online and then someone else
very
kindly they would have they would have
answered the questions already
let me show you an example uh one
concept we are going to be learning
we're going to be looking at today is
the
uh constant variable so maybe you
you're wondering uh what is the
difference between
swift const co and st
versus variable swift const or variable
okay and once you search you'll find
that there are a lot of
there are a lot of resources online and
personal experiences if you click on top
three
usually you would have gotten a pretty
good idea
already okay well you can read through
this
whole thing i usually don't read these
are reference documentations it's a lot
of text
to read through i don't usually go
through them but what i usually do
is uh um i look for examples like sample
quotes
and sometimes there's even youtube
videos actually youtube is
another really good source to to look
for things
nowadays as well so if you look for
blah blah blah what's the one swift cost
and a variable you will find a lot of
you'll find a lot of uh
helpful helpful explanation there as
well
okay so source one when you have
question
the first source uh uh the first place
you can look go
and look for help is google or youtube
okay
second place you can go to look for help
is
uh within your within the microsoft
teams
okay within the microsoft teams uh i've
i will be after the cloud after the lab
i will be creating a new
channel called ask the class and
for future questions please post it
in that ask the class channel why why
why do you want to post it there because
uh
everyone in that channel when they see
your
question everyone can jump in and help
you okay
i'm i might as much as i want to help
you 24 7
i'm human i need to sleep right i'm not
monitoring the chat
all the time but chances are maybe
when i'm sleeping somewhere someone else
might be awake
and they might see your message and once
they do
and they will be if they're kind enough
they will help you out
so please for any future questions if
you googled and
if you can't find the answer write out
the question
uh please try to be descriptive if
possible
write out the question send it to ask
the class
uh channel which i will create after the
class okay after today uh
after today's lab so that's the second
place you can look for help
the third look help is you can reach out
to me
or you can reach out to uh to to
professor
uh to professor and i believe the uh the
co
her contact email is already in the
lecture slide
so if you go back and go to canvas and
download the lecture slide it's there or
if you download the
well what's that thing called um subject
outlines it's there as well
my email uh i'll i i'll send you my
email later
in the in the team ha in the in the
microsoft team as well
okay so you can uh if you if you try the
first two channels already
and you couldn't find the answer please
feel free to reach out to us and that
will help you out
and um and yeah so
it's um before i continue uh is everyone
is everyone okay uh uh is everyone okay
with that
give me a raise your hand if you feel
okay with everything information so far
cool awesome see lots of little hands
popping up this is so fun
all right so uh please for the laps uh
come
on uh if you have a question feel free
to ask we are here to learn we are here
to make mistakes
the more mistake the more bug you can uh
the more bug you bump into in the labs
uh
the more you can fix the more you learn
okay it doesn't make sense to sit here
lay back and then do nothing and watch
people code that's not how we learn
you don't it's a bit like uh it's a bit
like gym
okay you you don't you don't grow your
muscle you don't go
you don't um train your body by looking
at other people trained you train your
body by doing it yourself
okay by breaking up the muscle tissue
and then regrow it that's how you that's
how you train
similarly with coding similarly with
learning programming
you you learn by making mistakes and i
encourage you please
i encourage you make mistakes make more
mistakes
and we are here to learn how to fix them
okay we are here to learn
how to fix them so
that is about that is about the
labs in terms of in terms of teaching
style what you will see in the labs is
that you will see
ver you'll see less slides in fact you
probably won't see
much more slides after today's class
you'll see a lot of hands-on coding okay
you will see a lot of hands-on coding
and you'll find that the class is uh the
labs is gonna be interactive
i'm going to make it as interactive as
possible uh for today
uh i the only access i have to your
reaction is your hands up feature
uh for uh starting from next week once i
have all the access sorted
um i will be able to see your chat i'll
be able to see
uh your raised hands i'll be able to see
uh
um a lot of um other infos and then
by then i'll try to make the class very
interactive
okay and i try to make the lab very
agile as well
that means after every week after every
lab
i'm going to ask you and this is
optional okay this is completely
optional
but i will send um i will send you a a
link
to a for a survey a very very short
survey
and that survey uh in fact i'll just
quickly show you i know we got
i know we have a midterm and the end of
semester survey
but these are kind of um slow um if
this is a this is a weekly survey uh
it's completely optional you don't have
to do it
but it will be very helpful to let me
know so after every lap
if you can just tell me which level you
just finished the class place
a pace is it too fast is it okay or
um or is it too fast that we know okay
or is it very good
uh in terms of clarity am i being clear
or am i not clear enough
uh in terms of engagement do you like
the engagement do you feel that's too
much engagement etc etc
in terms of knowledge hopefully i know
everything but if you feel like i don't
know everything let me know i'll catch
up on that area
and finally if you have any other
comment
please let me know okay your response is
completely anonymous
and feel free to share any thoughts
feedbacks
comments and most importantly criticism
here
this helps me this form is for me the
tutor okay
this is for me to structure my future
labs
and because every class is different
right every individual every
student is different and i want to hear
what you feel
okay i want to hear what you feel and by
by submitting those anonymous feedbacks
after the labs
it helps me to formulate the next lab
to be faster or maybe to be slower to be
more clear
or maybe to be a bit less in detail
to be more engaging or two to catch up
on my knowledge if that's the case
okay if you have any um other comments
let me know in there as well for example
if you think jack
i i do want more slides uh can you
please have more
slides sure let me know in the comments
okay let me know in the comments
or maybe you are thinking jack um less
talking let's do more coding
sure let me know in the in there as well
let's do more coding
okay so i'd like to those i'd like to
improve the la
those labs not only semester places but
on a weekly basis and i
i truly want to make this learning
experience
the best it can be for you okay so
please help me
to help you by uh by submitting the
feedback
uh and those feedbacks are optional and
those feedback completely anonymous
so uh don't worry i won't be um
it won't be like you won't be picked or
anything okay
cool so that's uh how the lab is gonna
go
uh in terms of requirements what what
you need to bring first of all
please bring yourself okay uh that's not
a joke
this lab is uh happens on 10 a.m every
um every tuesday and it's quite it
depends
depending on if you're a late person or
early person it can be quite early for
you
so um please bring yourself
please bring your uh bring your energy
and the reason for that is because i
want you to engage
i want you to interact in this class i
want us to code together
okay i want us to go together and
because
two two hours you
we only spend two hours together a week
and i want to get uh and if you want to
get feedback for your code if you want
to uh learn how where your bugs are of
course you have the channels you have
google
and you have asked the class but if you
want to get hands-on help
if you won't get hands-on experience
with everyone else this
is the only two hours of the week that
you can do that
so please i highly encourage everyone to
bring yourself
bring your energy uh to the class
and then try your best i'm gonna
formulate the class
i'm going to formulate the lab so that
it's easy to follow
and i want everyone to have your ex code
open
and then follow along okay follow along
and that is gonna that is gonna make a
significant difference trust me i've
been teaching
at uh i've been teaching uh for a long
time by now
and um yeah it makes it those
practice those hands-on practice is that
makes all the difference
okay so please bring yourself uh and uh
uh get ready uh if you need get a coffee
i just got a coffee just now
and uh yeah bring the energy and we're
gonna have
a lot of fun together okay second thing
the only thing
other thing you need is a macbook okay
so
um it can be a laptop it can be imac it
can be mac mini and it
can it can even be a hacking touch if
you really want it to be
um but you need a mac system okay you
need a
you need a mac system um you can
uh if you don't have a mac system you
can try uh
either machina cloud which
which is a remote virtual remote virtual
one
or you can try the uts uts
mac a uts virtual virtual virtual mac
or virtual virtual something uh
i believe uh uh professor already uh
walk you through
um all these options already okay so you
will need
a mac system okay you will need a mac
system
and that's it as long as you bring
yourself as long as your
uh uh engage and as long as you uh bring
your macbook i promise you
uh you're gonna get the most you're
gonna get the most out of those laps
okay how's everyone feeling give me a
razor hand if you're feeling happy
cool awesome or if you're not free
cool awesome all right let's uh let's
jump into the labs okay so first of all
looking ahead uh this is lab one in lab
one we are going to look at the basics
that is the xcode idex code okay
we're gonna look at uh we're gonna start
looking at
the swift programming language as well
okay
uh depending on the time we might go
through more we might go through less
uh in in a second lab we are gonna
continue okay we are gonna continue with
swift
programming language okay and uh towards
the
uh in the second half of lab two i'm
going to show you
sorry not assignment i think it's called
assessment right uh assess my assignment
mean the same thing okay i might have
there there might be a typo there so in
the lab two towards the second half of
lab two
i will show you some tips on how to do
uh assess
assessment one okay assessment one now
what is assessment one assessment one
is a command line calculator
okay it's a command like calculator it's
not ion app
so you won't see it on your screen or
anything all right
it's it happens in the x code command
line which i will show you in today's
class okay so we
we will not be making um so as mentioned
uh in the modern age uh we will be in
the first assessment we will be working
on swift only we'll be working on a
commando
application we will not be making the
ios application meaning we will not have
any ui
we will not have any buttons we will not
have any
storybooks anything like that for the
first assessment
the the the focus is on
making sure everyone uh everyone is up
to date and everyone
uh is everyone masters swift
okay swift the programming language and
that's what we're going to do in the
first two laps
starting in the third lab we might uh
depending on the feedback i might uh
michael's i might go through assessment
one um if everyone's submitted already
or i might or we might um
continue with ios application
development depending on
um our lecture uh what we learned in a
lecture
okay and i'll let you know uh in all
future labs i'll make sure to let you
know what we are doing
ahead of time okay i'll make sure we are
clear
what we are doing ahead of time and
let's dive right in
okay first thing first today we are
gonna learn
uh the xcode and swift okay
for our tutorial as our forward lab
we are going to be using we are going to
be using
xcode version 11 okay xcode version 11.
if you have 10 uh 10.10 to 10.3
that's fine if you have 11.0 11.12345
that's fine uh if you have any future
version
it should be okay as well uh the
interface that we are going to use
uh is not going to change significantly
but for the for for all the labs for the
demo i'm going to use
11.7 so if you do find anything that
is different feel free to screenshot
that
and send that to the ask the class
channel later
and then we can we are
we can help you out okay we can we can
help you out
so that and in order to download xcode
there are two places you can download
that one is from the app store
you can search for xcode now depending
on
which version of your mac system is on
so i'm currently on
the 10.15.5 sort of the later version
already
if you try to get xcode from the app
store
uh the app store that the latest xcode
from app store
if you have a newer mac it's gonna say
it's gonna say version 12. something i
checked it yesterday already uh where is
it where is it
somewhere here nope
version yeah there we go so as you can
see if you download from app store if
you have the latest mac if you
which is download if you if you want to
use the latest one
alternatively if you want to use
strictly version 11
you can search now this is where the
google comes in play
it's called download xcode 11
and your your it will bring you to
uh first result is actually xcode 12 but
that's okay
what you want to do is you want to go to
the resources tab
and then uh go to additional go to
additional downloads
so uh yeah older versions of xcode
and then once you click on that it's
going to ask you to sign in if you don't
have an account
please you need please create one
um and i'm gonna
quickly login let's call it uh
apple
oh this mess
so i'm gonna quickly lock in
uh all the passwords
sorry give me one sec uh apple.com
there we go copy password
all right so once you're logging
once you're logging
you'll see under more downloads if you
search
like command f you can search for x code
and you'll see all the older version
xcode 11 here
in fact that's where i downloaded
yesterday okay
once you've downloaded it it's going to
be a xip file
so that's the file i i downloaded
yesterday
actually let me get rid of that and once
you
uh once you unzip it you will receive an
application called xcode just move the
application to the application folder
and then you're good to go
okay you're good to go and that is
how we can install that is how we can
that is how we can install xcode okay
now let's uh before i move on how's
everyone feeling
um can you can you please raise your
hand if you have xcode installed already
okay cool awesome um if you don't
have xcode open i'm gonna um i'm gonna
leave some time
uh um later and then you can install
that uh
install that okay all right so
so this is xcode and once you
open xcode double click on it you can
open its code
and once you open xcode all your
historically open project is going to be
here um for you you might not see every
anything here and that is okay we are
not going to create we are not going to
be creating projects
until later okay so
for today we are gonna we're gonna take
a look at xcode we're gonna take a look
at swift
so for that please click on uh on the
left hand side you'll see
a a button called get started with a
playground
okay uh do
uh can you can you guys please follow
along if you haven't downloaded the
xcode
uh please download please try to get the
download started as soon as possible
if you have xcode open please follow
along okay
first step is click on get started with
a playground okay now once you click on
that
once you click on that a window is gonna
pop up it's gonna ask you to choose a
template for us
we are doing ios application development
so please choose ios
then please choose blank okay please
choose a blank
for now then click on next
it's gonna ask you to save it as a file
i'm gonna save it as uh
lab one and i'm gonna save it on desktop
you can you can name it anything you
want you can save it anything
anywhere you want okay now click on
create place
cool awesome so now now that you've
clicked
uh click on create you should see
a text editor looking like this
text editor looking like this open up on
your screen
okay uh can you get now i'm gonna
let's spend a few minutes on this can
you
please raise your hand if you are uh
if you have this window open you if you
have created a
playground file and you are seeing this
editor
okay now we can take a
take a minute that's fine
okay keep your uh please keep your hands
raised up because uh
um unless you see everyone
uh you might you might see some prompts
saying that xcode need to install
additional tools
that is okay as well click on install
click on the install button there it's
gonna ask you to type in the password
that's your computer password
and this installation might take it took
me
took me half an hour yesterday so um
yeah you do you do need to install that
okay
all right i see half i see helpful for
class have their hands raised up that's
awesome okay
i'm gonna i'm gonna continue and uh
um if you have um uh fif uh this
this lab is being recorded so uh later
on please
feel free to come back uh i think it's
gonna be on the canvas later
so um feel free to come back and
re-watch this and follow along okay
follow along
all right if you don't have the x code
uh please watch my screen if you have x
code open
uh uh follow along okay follow
okay so this is xcode okay this is
xcode the editor and first thing
first things first i'm going to
customize it a little bit
okay this is my editor so i can
customize any way i want first thing i'm
going to do
is i'm going to change it to dark
dark mode midnight
i'm gonna change it to dark mode because
that's easier on the ice and i'm gonna
use
classic dark yeah
classic dark is fine you can use any
anything you want um
the the thing the main thing to watch
out for is that we want the font
to be both to be bolded if possible
and that's gonna make it a bit easier to
read okay so first thing first
dark mode second thing is a
second thing you might want to do is you
might want to adjust the font size to be
a bit larger
and oh by the way please put your hand
down
um uh in a team okay thank you very much
now the other thing i'm gonna do is i'm
gonna change the font
size okay i don't care uh i'm gonna
leave the font
family to default but i'm gonna change
the font size to be a bit bigger
the reason for that is because i'm
sharing screen and i do want everyone to
be able to see
things clearly okay so i
think 24 should be big enough
and what i'm gonna do is i will close
so i've i've i've changed that
here i've changed that to 24.
so here's the classic uh color
not not the color okay so
what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna select
all so on the keyboard
command a that's select all
and i'm going to see
if i can make the phone a bit larger
now font maybe 18
24 yep 24 looks good
okay um
now can everyone see my code all right
is this is the phone still too small for
you hands up if you
hands up if the phone is okay
okay cool awesome i see i see how i
think i see half of the class there so
that's good okay that's good
um so that's the first thing you can
customize color customize uh
font etc etc and
you can you can do that later but i
prefer to get that done
uh to begin with and uh so that's
that's the uh that's the font next up
here in the middle part here you will
see your editor
okay this is where we write the code
okay this is where we
this is where we write the code now
importantly there are a few panels okay
we have the code panel in the middle now
on the top right hand side you'll see a
little you'll
see three little icons here okay these
icons helps you to toggle different
windows
in open and close okay so what i'm going
to do is i'm going to
open that this code will be larger
so i can open the left hand side panel
i can open the lower hand side panel by
clicking that
i can open the right hand side panel by
that
okay you can depending on your screen
size you can click on the
you can you can zoom and etc etc okay
you can
uh resize all right and
on the and these are the four common
windows
okay these are the four very common
window that we use
in the middle we have our code at the
top
on the left hand side so on the left
hand side
on the left hand side we got our file
directory
okay so right now
as of right now we don't uh we only have
one single file
that is the lab1 playground file okay
but in the future when you're working on
project
you will see a lot more uh a lot more
other
code in fact i'm i'm just gonna bring a
screenshot over
here this is how a normal xcode looks
like so on the left hand side is your
navigation area
okay it's all your files are there okay
in the middle is a code editor already
mentioned in the lower hand side
is your debug area okay so here is where
you you check all the logs okay
if you've ever worked in web development
you'll see you know the chrome inspector
where you find the logs here this debug
area
is the app application version of that
okay
so in application uh when we when we
write application we we write logs all
the time we write debugs all the time
and here the lower debug area is where
we check
those logs okay where we check those log
finally on the right hand side that's
the utility area
utility area is where we
utility areas where we uh uh
uh where we set all the properties and
uh
where we set font size properties um
uh class names etc etc we will be using
a lot of utility area probably starting
from week three
okay week three for now for now
uh i actually let me just quickly sync
no you might start using it pretty soon
um
for now just know that this is where i
set all the utility and
we'll take a deeper look once we once we
get there
okay once we get there so these are the
four common windows okay these are the
four common windows
and in addition to that
uh if you're you know if you're in the
application you'll also find
the run the run buttons here uh i'll
show i'll show you once
once we come across to them okay so
that's a quick
that's a very very quick very very brief
intro to
the to the x code to the xcode let's
let's
let's write some code shall we let's
write some code
so uh in today not today in this week's
lab
uh so in this week's lecture that is a
lecture two
we we've learned we've learned a few
things
we've learned variables and constants
we've learned operators we learned if
else
we've left switch we've learned function
okay
so what i'm gonna do is uh i'll type
this out
and let's try to write some examples for
this
okay and by the way when you write
uh when you write anything and then
if you prepend it if you prefix it
with a double slash
that means it's a comment okay that
means a comment
in fact whenever you see green at least
in a dark mode
whenever you see green text there that
means it's comment
comment means these code are not gonna
get run
uh what in the actual application these
code are there
to help you understand okay these are
these codes are there to understand they
do not
affect any functionality okay
so these are the things that we are
going to what we are going to go through
between today's lab and the lab two and
let's let's go through it one by one
okay first one
is variable versus constants now in
swift
programming languages well actually
before that
let me give you a quick overview in any
in any programming languages
the two most there are two things you
need to learn
and once you've learned those two things
you can you can
claim you know the programming language
and you can start writing it already
there are only two things okay in any
programming language
and those two things are first is you
need for any programming language you
want to know
how to write a variable and in any
programming language
you want to know how to write a function
once you know how to write variable and
function
pretty much you've you've learned the
programming language already
the rest will follow okay the rest will
follow
so if this is your first programming
language that you're learning
uh do not worry we are going to walk
through this together
okay if if you already know some other
programming languages like java
javascript python whatever that might be
once you've learned you once you've
learned how to write
variable how to write function try
internally
try to try to compare swift
with other programming languages as well
and then think about
and then have a feel about
uh try to have a uh internally try to
try to do a
uh try to compare the two programming
languages and see how similar
how different the two programming
languages are uh
fun fact i've learned it took me three
months to learn the first
first programming language which is
objective c i was doing it very slowly
i was learning from the book okay it
took me two
two months to learn my second
programming language which was java
i was learning android after ios then it
took me
two weeks to learn my third programming
language that is
javascript as of right now
right now if i jump into any new project
give me any programming language
i just need two hours to have a quick
look at the language and then i can
start
programming okay so language
end of the day you need to know one
programming language
that is how they how does programming
language work
we're going to go through that today in
the next lab and once you know how one
programming language work
you can use any other programming
language
the only difference is syntax okay the
only difference is
syntax in fact let me let me show you in
swift
you might write a variable like that a
va
let's say va name equal to jack
okay file name equal to jack in
in javascript it's va name equal to jack
exactly the same in column
android one var name equal to jack again
exactly the same in other in
java it's a string name
equal to jack very similar in in other
in python uh
i haven't written python in a few months
now you know what i think that's enough
um
the point is like once you know once you
understand how one programming language
will work you will
you will have a you you won't be able to
quickly pick up any other programming
language
whether swift javascript colon java or
objective c if you want okay so
so if it's your first programming
language uh let's
make sure that you uh let let's make
sure that you understand all these
concepts
really well if you have questions uh
please
feel free to ask any time okay if if
this is your second or
second language or more then
then internally please try to compare
because it's going to help you
pick up additional language quicker okay
quicker so what we are going to do is we
for for the rest of today we are i'm
going to show you how to write those
how to write variables and constants
there are operators how to write files
how do i switch and how to write
function
in swift okay and before i do that
before we dive into
code uh let's take a quick break
okay let's take a quick break it's been
it's been
um feeling a bit dark let's take a five
minute break
uh go maybe go get some water stand up
wave your arm and do a bit of a
stretching let's come back
at the 10 past 11 our walk through the
rest of coding
together okay let's go through the rest
of coding together
i'll see i'll see you in five minutes
[Music]
so
okay
[Music]
hey
hmm
[Music]
uh
okay
[Music]
so
uh
[Music]
hey hello everyone let's continue with
the class
let me share my screen making sure it's
the right screen screen too
okay and uh let's continue
alright okay so in the first half
we work through how the lab is gonna
look like uh
uh where to download xcode uh and then
how to create a new playground file
okay now what is the playground file
a playground file as a as name suggests
it's a playground okay we can write code
in it we can run it to play around with
it
okay and in this playground file
we're gonna learn how we're gonna learn
the uh uh we are gonna learn
the uh all the swift programming
features okay
so first of all is uh the first one is
variable
versus content uh constants
can uh does anyone know that okay i
can't hear back uh
so the variable between sorry not
variable the difference between the
variable and constants
is that variable changes
constant does not okay for this example
for the lab
and please follow try to follow along
what we are going to do is we are going
to
create a person
and make
some noise okay create a person and make
some noise
now to for i'm gonna create a person
that's myself okay
so i can i can write things like this
uh a maybe
variable h equal to 27.
so now h
will be a variable okay h will be
a variable now why would h be a variable
because age changes
okay every year age would change
all right and but something might be
well may uh maybe your date of birth
is gonna be cos well i think data press
is pretty constant right
so data of birth is going to be 30
and 993 something like that okay
so what's the difference between
variable and constants well
for variable variable is anything that
can change
okay that can change constant is any
value that does not change okay that
will stay
the constant okay that will that will
stay
constant now what's the what's the
syntax
what's the syntax to write a variable
and a constant
well to write a variable
to write a variable you can start with
va okay var h equal to 27
this is us saying that hey i'm declaring
a variable called h and it is 27
it might change later okay to declare a
constant
declared constant we start with the
keyword then a space then
the um then the variable name
call it anything you want and then
followed by whatever the variable
might be okay or whatever the variable
might be
now one thing to one thing to note here
is with swift programming language the
semicolon in the end
is not compulsory okay in fact you might
see people
you might see people writing code like
that now that's not
wrong okay that's not wrong but i would
always encourage you
to finish finish your sentence
finish your quote finish your this line
of code by a semicolon
this is a good habit to keep okay this
is a good habit to form this is a good
habit to keep
now because in the future
you might not be writing swift you might
be writing objective c
for objective c if you read
objective c then you would have
you would have to write a semicolon in
the end
so by having that this habit
forming this time of
semicolon in the asp do you any wrong in
fact if anything
this makes you look less um this looks
you
this makes it look a bit like
professional world
look this makes you look a bit more uh
experienced
the reason is the older developer the
older generations
always they have this habit of insane
equipment they have to
um nowadays even though you can ignore
it people with more experience
tend to write them so it's a it's a it's
a it's a nice to have
um so feel free to add that
if you want or feel free to ignore it
okay so that is how we define
and assign a variable uh you can define
you can also break this
code into two lines as well so what we
can
what we can write var h and then h
equal to 27 okay h
equal to 27. now what does this mean
this this means that hey this could be a
variable
okay i'm going to create a variable uh i
don't know what it is yet
okay i don't know i don't know what it
is yet uh
let me add the identifier together
camera case
i don't i don't know what my i don't
know what my
variable is going to be yet but i do
know it is going to be an
integer okay it is going to be an
integer
and then i later i can assign
later i can assign a value to my
variable
so the first line is me saying hey
here's a variable
here's an integer here's an integer and
i'm go
i don't know what integer that's going
to uh i don't know what integer
here's an integer and i'm naming this h
later on i can write h equal to 27 this
is me assigning
the the variable okay this is me
assigning a value
to the variable
you sure don't break those two into two
lines because it's a bit of extra code
so you can straight away right like that
okay but technically this is the
declaring
of variables and this is
assigning value to the variable
okay assigning value to the variable
variable
okay and
this is a short form var h equal to 27
this is a short form
declaring and
assigning value to
variable okay now
does this this does this part make sense
for everyone can i be scared
get a hands up if it's uh if this
decline assigning
makes sense to everyone
okay okay the second one is
a the second one is constant okay second
one is a constant now for constant
um uh okay so here we see an
error the error says including invalid
redeclaration of age
and this is a quite common that is
because i've already declared a variable
called h
i cannot declare another variable with
the same name
okay you cannot you cannot do that
uh in a single file you should only
declare the
one variable uh with the every variable
should have a unique name basically
okay so if i want to do that i can
comment this code out
there's a shortcut for commenting called
out you can select the code
on your keyboard you can press command
and the forward slash
to hold up once i come once i come out
of code this works just fine
okay and yeah
so that that is the difference between
variable and a constant
as well as how to write variable
constant okay
so let's let's take let's take uh
three to five minutes please in your
xcode in your playground file
i want you to write a variable for your
age i want you to write a constant for
your date of birth
okay and once
uh please pop your hand
in the team
[Music]
hello
oh this is messed up well done
why don't uh dino well done um
uh it aimed right i'm sorry if i
pronounce your name
for next week because i might get
everything sorted
i see more hands nice nice job uh one
chain nice jaw
uh uh to chin um
everyone else keep trying you can do
this
you can do this
and i see james i see shin chun uh
that's done as well
awesome okay good job good job okay now
uh please keep your hand up no no please
keep your hand up for now
i need to do counts later thank you very
much
all right um
okay if you've done that please put your
hand up five
six i see two more i mean meanwhile very
well done
i can get sorry
sorry about the pronunciation well done
okay well done
all right so if you've done that now if
you have another please keep trying
that's okay
take your time no rush but if you have
done that you might have noticed
a blue a blue
collar a a blue stripe on the left okay
and this blue stripe uh it also has the
line number on it if your xcode
all have line please go to xcode
preferences then go to the
text editing and then make sure you
check this line number and the display
okay it's gonna make it a lot easier to
communicate in the future
and if
again if you have uh if you have written
this code please keep your hand up in a
team okay
and now you see you'll see this blue bar
here now what this is gonna do
is you can run this code okay
now and so let's say
i click on i hold on to line three i
click on play
what that's gonna do is xcode
is going to s code is going to run this
playground file
and once play uh what's called once
xcode
has run this platform file you will see
uh
you'll see the variable on the right
hand side so here we declare a variable
called hollow playground
and i've run it all the way until line
three
that's why you only see the result until
line three okay nothing else now i can
hoover down i can go
to my line fourteen your line might be
different
my line fourteen once i click on that
i'll see
h equal to 27 you'll see that this is
the variable
uh h equal to 27
okay uh you
you can so you can this is what
and this is the significant benefit of a
playground file that is
you can literally write your code and
then you can run your code between the
lines
and then see what your code does okay
see what your code does so once you have
once you have written the variable and
constant please give this
uh please give this little blue
uh blue play button a try okay full play
button try
okay we're just gonna take two more
minutes
for this
and please keep your hand up if you if
you manage to write the variable and
constant
okay so i think i
i think i saw 9 before so
we have 28 in a meeting so a third
that's that's okay
cool awesome let's move on so please uh
please put your hand on thank you very
much
all right let's move on so so now that
we've learned how to
uh how to declare variable and how to
declare constants
let's try to turn
them a bit okay so let's say this is
year 2021
okay now we are in year 2021 and
now we
our age has increased well
how do we increase an age
well we can write code
so h is a number right it's just a
number so with any number
with any number you can use operator to
change
uh to to change those numbers so
in our case in year 2021
we we want to increment h by one and we
can do that by writing
h plus one okay h plus one and
now if i run that you'll see that h plus
one
gives you the result of 28. okay
so you can use plus to do the addition
now there are other there are other
operators
which doesn't make sense in the in the
age
context but there are other operators
that you can use i'm just going to write
them
um i run them together so give you a
sense okay this is very important
because you're going to use this for
your first assessment
okay so if i do age
plus 1 will receive 28 if i write
h minus 1 we'll receive 26 okay so 27
minus 1 is 26
if i write h times 2 and h divides by 3
h times by 2 that gives me
54. and h divides by three
that gives me number nine okay
there's actually one more if you want
this one's a little bit more advanced
and the less commonly used that is the
remainder
sign so h percentage
3 this means remainder that means if i
divide
27 by 3 is there any remainder
if now because 27 can be divided by 3 so
there's
zero rema remainder is zero that's why
it's zero
okay however if i change my age to 28
this time if i run this code
what do we expect to see
for the first one for the addition we
expect to see 29
for the second one we expect to see 27
because 28 minus 1 is
for the third one h times by two we'd
expect to see
56 if my math is right then
here's the interesting one what do we
expect to see when we divide number 28
by number three
hands up if you think han
please put your hand up if you think we
are gonna see
nine point three three three three well
we do
h divide by three sanji don't run a yeah
take a guess this is the making mistake
part
okay
cool awesome now heads up if you think
we're gonna see
number nine once we run the code i
haven't run the code yet
put your hand up if you think we're
gonna see nine
okay that is good i do see a lot of hand
up
you guys are doing well okay you guys
are doing well and
in fact if i run if i run the code you
will see that
when i do h divides by 3 which is 28
divided by 3
instead of receiving a decimal number i
am actually receiving an integer the
integer is 9.
so it would be like hey jack 28 divides
by 3 that is not 9 that is 9.353
okay you can't miss that okay you can't
miss that
yes and uh here's the thing in human
math
you know uh or arithmetics math that we
learn as a human
yes there's decimal places okay
in programming world
decimal number and integer number
are two very different things okay
let me repeat in what they call it in
in programming world decimal places
like decimal numbers and integers are
two
completely different things now
here when i wrote h equal to 28
this age is presumed to be an
integer okay this age is presumed to be
an
integer so when i divide an integer by
an integer
in programming language when i divide
integer by integer
i will i will receive an integer
okay i will receive an integer
that's why uh that's why when i divide
28 by 3 i received the integer part of
the
of the uh what they call it the
uh the division so instead of 9.23 i'll
receive 9
because it needs to be an integer okay
in fact
if i change it to 29
if i change it to 29 and run it again
you'll see that it's still two okay it's
still two it's rounded down
okay it's still two and
because of this behavior because of this
division behavior
integer division behavior sometimes we
might also be interested in the
remainder
for example 29 divides by 3 so
just writing here 29 divides by
3 equal to 9 and the remainder
is a 2 okay remainder is 2.
so in our case if we are interested in
the integer part we use the
for slash if we are interested
in the remainder part we use the
percentage sign
okay we use the percentage sign and
these are
the comma the five common uh operators
okay these are the five comma operators
now
uh can you please tell uh if
uh how's everyone feeling right now do
you understand those five reminders
can you please put your hands up if you
are if you're okay with those five
remainders
does not remain there's not five five
operators what am i talking about
okay cool awesome i see lots of hands
you guys are doing excellent okay you
guys are doing excellent
now uh you might be
another question you might be asking is
hey jack
this looks weird your age is 29
or like the variable age is 29 h
plus 1 gives you 30 right
and h minus 1 gives you 28.
well shouldn't shouldn't this age be
29 instead because i mean 30 minus 1
is 29 right so why
why is this showing up as 28
does anyone know
okay i'm gonna invite someone to answer
in the next class okay this class again
i don't have any
i can't hear um response so i'm just
going to explain it
so what's happening is this age variable
is 29
okay when i do h plus 1
that does give me 30 okay but this
30 as h plus 1
i didn't assign the value 30
to age 29 i didn't
okay i did not assign 30
to age 29 that's why
even after i did plus one this
is still 30. so either even after i did
h plus 1
and i see a result of 30 the variable
the value for the age
is still 29
if i wish to assign the new value if i
wish to assign
30 onto my variable code h
then i would write h
equal to h plus 1. so this is me saying
that hey
i want to plus 1 to the h
and that's the value and i want to
assign this new value
back onto my age variable
okay now
if i try to run it again
you'll see that this time
h becomes 30 it's always 30 but
but in addition to that when i do
h minus 1 this time h becomes 29 instead
of 28
okay this is very this is very important
because um it help it helps us
to to to update the value for the
variable
okay it helps us to update the value of
the variable
so for the rest i can i can i can write
h equal to h minus 1 h equal to h times
2.
so let's let's do a quick let's do some
quick math here okay
um and uh do try to do try to
follow along try to do it as well okay
now
first enough after first line of code
this 29 is going to become
30 okay so 21 plus 1 29 plus 1 becomes
30. okay then 30 minus 1
becomes 29 right i'm going to run the
code
and then 29 times 2
becomes 58. so
i put 58 into the age okay
and then 58 divides by 3 gives us
19 for the main top for the integer part
and 58 divides by a remainder by 3
gives us 1 as a reminder
okay so we can
so on the right hand side when you write
programming
any programming language the right hand
side is always how you update the value
and then the left hand side and with the
equal sign this is how you
assign the value so whenever you see a
single equal sign
that always means a sign i'm assigning
29 to a variable
called age i'm assigning 30
to a variable called age the right hand
side
handles the calculation the manipulation
of data
the left hand side is the variable name
and this equals
i make sure we assign the value from
right hand side
to the left hand side okay
now before before i move on
is everyone comfortable with this
activity can you please
put your hand up if you're comfortable
with this
so far
that's good that's good i see a lot of
hands up that's that's good you guys are
amazing okay you're following along very
very well
okay um for
so what i want you to do is uh
okay so after the class what i'm gonna
do is i'll i'll save this file
i'll send you this file after the class
and then what i want you to do is i want
you to click on these play buttons next
to it
and then actually play these files and
look at the numbers
next to it and then once you play around
with it um
maybe like i mentioned this works but
also change this a bit maybe divide by
seven or something reminder by seven and
then see
how the value changes okay uh you learn
the most from
practicing let me repeat that you learn
the most from practicing so please
after the class today make sure that you
you
you give this a try practice practice
yourself okay
so this is operator okay this operator
i'm gonna comment out those lines of
code so they don't really make sense
in the context of h okay
cool awesome so that is operators next
up
we have if else okay next up we have if
else
so what i'm gonna do uh is
let's write an example that is if
h over 30 h
over or equal to h is greater
or equal to 30
try to find job okay try to find a job
okay now so this is what we
call an if else condition okay it feels
condensation
and various condition means that if
something is down we do this
otherwise we do something else okay if
we are hungry
go and eat otherwise you don't eat
if you're feeling sleepy get a coffee
otherwise drink water okay if else
condition
if else condition so in our case let's
let's say if h greater than
t find a job otherwise
uh study at uts okay something like that
so how would we how how would we write
that
code that's what we're gonna learn next
okay so
in this simple case it's gonna be if
else
it's gonna be if else condition okay
it's going to be a fast condition
so in swift the syntax for swift
when you write if else condition here is
the
here is the syntax
so if blah blah blah some some sort of
condition here if this condition
is true then we do this
otherwise we do
so the syntax let me repeat the syntax
for sync for swift the syntax is
if condition then
followed by a pointy bracket pointy
opening and closing pointy bracket and
my apologies let me start from scratch
in swift the conditional uh the fs
condition is you write like this so
if something is
some condition okay
in our case we want to check if h is
greater or equal to 30 so we can write
h here is greater or equal to 30
we can represent greater or equal to 30
by writing greater and equal
to 30. okay
so so first we write the condition
right after the if keyword followed by a
space okay there's a space in between
now very important to note is
in other programming languages you might
see
a wrong bracket around the condition in
older swift
in older swift conditions uh you will
you would
see this wrong bracket as well okay
in newer swift versions we no longer
need to write that round bracket so it's
straight away
if condition okay if condition
now after that condition we want to
write an opening
pointy bracket and a closing pointy
bracket
an opening and a closing pointy bracket
forms a block
forms a block of code okay now what is a
block of code a block of code is uh
a block of code is uh represents
some code that we are going to run
together
okay so in this case we are saying
if h is greater or equal to 30 then hey
please
run this code what is the code what is
the statement
you are trying to run but first i'm
gonna hit enter
uh i hit enter because it's uh it's more
aesthetically
uh like visually it's easier to look at
code
vertically okay easier to look at call
vertically so here if grade
h is greater than 30 here are the
statements
here's where i'm gonna write the
statements or code of statements okay
called all statements so when
a would call it when h is greater than
then run this block of code and so
for my requirement if age is greater or
equal to 30 fine job so what i'm going
to do is i'm going to write a
print statement okay print
locking opening linked
in finding jobs
[Music]
okay so here what's happening
what's happening i've written a print
statement
okay a written prince name print
is a very common as a very common
uh function it's a very common function
we write
and this statement helps us to print
output
to this output window okay to this
output window
so here what i'm saying is hey if h is
greater than 30
please help me print
something okay please help me print
something
well what are we gonna print we're gonna
print a string
okay we're gonna print a string uh we
have not talked about
uh let me just check the slides have we
talked about primitives yet
and i don't think so maybe we have maybe
not
maybe not anyway i'll talk about number
and strings maybe
later in other labs but for now
just know that here this sort of
statement that is print
round bracket this helps me print a
message to the output here
okay to the output here and anything any
message
any string okay any human message like
any string
you want to print you want to wrap it
with a double quote
okay double quote when you wrap
something with a double quote that means
it's a string
string means it's some sort of text okay
in programming language you need
to wrap it with double quote to to
to signify that it's a string
so let's try to run it okay so i click
on run
oh oops there's uh this
syntax error here let me delete that
let's try to run that okay
so now that we've run that if h is
greater than 30
then we're gonna print opening linkedin
finding jobs
okay finding jobs and as you can see
here
is a uh here is a
lot here's a message that's printed okay
here's a message that is printed
and this message shows up in print
because we've written this print
statement okay because we've written
this print
statement um
otherwise well here so we've done the
first part right we've done the first
one which is f greater than 30 find job
otherwise study at uts so else
so how do we do the otherwise part well
we can write else
here's an else
for if the condition is not true
then we can use an else block to
talk about what's uh to talk about what
should happen
okay to talk about what should happen
so here so you can after after the
after the closing of the previous if
block write
space else space then followed by
another block
whenever you hear me say block that
means an opening
and a closing of pointy brackets okay
pointy brackets
now within this block we are going to
say
we are going to say study at uts okay so
how do we do that
we can write print
go study studying
at uts studying
studying studying
okay so now that we have an
else block there let's try to run the
code let's see that
hey because our age now if we look at it
our age is 30
because it's greater or equal to 30
that's why
it's printing opening linkedin it's not
printing studying at uts
okay however if i adjust this to the
normal student age maybe i don't know 22
i guess and this time
if i try to run the code again we'll see
that the
co-age is 22 in year 2021
h becomes 23 and because
age 23 it's not it's
not greater than 30 so it's not so the
code in fblock is not going to run only
the else block
is going to run okay so
that's why if you look at the print here
we only see
a print saying studying at uts
study study okay so this
is an this is a good example of how we
write
a basic if else uh
fls block okay false block
now there are there can be more
complicated examples
so what if we want to say if h is
greater equal to 30
find job
otherwise if
greater or equal to
25 study master
otherwise study
undergrad a uts
okay so what we are so
in this case if it's greater than 30
still look for jobs
but if h is not greater than 30
but it is greater than 25 then
we want to stay study master at uts can
we do that
well we can what we could do is uh
we could write e after the else block
so previous so let me delete this code
okay
so previously we will write this else
straight away
right we will write this out straight
away now
for for a sort of an inter um
uh for for another condition we'll write
else if
okay else if else it means that this if
it's not true so that's why it's else
but in the else condition
age is greater or equal to 25 then we
say
studying master at uts
else that means ages less than 25 so we
are going to say study
undergrad at uts
okay so now let's give this a now if we
run the code again
because our age is 22 plus 1 becomes 23
and 23 is less than
25 so so first of all
23 is less than 30 so this code this
prank is not going to work
it's not going to run okay this is not
going to print
then because 23 is not greater than 25
either
so the second print is not gonna it's
not going to
run then in the else block you will see
studying undergrad at uts studying
studying study
okay studying study study if i adjust
the age to maybe 26
run the code again you'll see that
ages 20 age was 26 updated to 27
then because 27 is not greater than 30
so so this print linkedin is not going
to work it's not going to show
but because 27 is greater than 25
so the studying master at uds is going
to show okay
so this is a quick these are some quick
examples
of how to write if else
and potentially else if blocks of code
okay uh you're gonna uh in your
calculator app
uh you know assessment one you're gonna
find that you're gonna find this
if else block very helpful uh as well
i'm gonna show you
example on how to do that in towards the
end of next
lab okay but for for for this week
definitely you'll definitely need to
make sure that you review and
get comfortable with reading this code
if you don't like if you are if you've
um if you've previously studied
programming this
might seem easy for you this might seem
intuitive already
um and that's great um what i want you
to do is uh
review this code and make sure you are
comfortable with
new syntax because swift syntax
it's it's omitting the
it's omitting the round bracket here so
make sure you are comfortable with the
new syntax
if you are studying this as a first
language congratulations
swift is one of the simplest language to
get started with
but you even though
it's considered to be simple comparing
to other
language you can it can still be hard if
it's
you know if you're a beginner so don't
feel stressed okay please don't feel
stressed
uh it happens to like like if you
feel a bit daunting feel a bit
challenging know that it's good it's a
good thing
because whenever you feel challenging
whenever you feel things are hard that
is
when you're learning okay so like i said
first thing calm yourself
okay calm down you're gonna get this
okay you will definitely get this
and then use this code i'm going to send
this code to the team after the class
okay
use it use this code and then click on
this
click on the uh click on the run button
next to it and then you can change the
numbers around
and then click on the run button again
so one so so change things around
play play around with it and then the
more you play around with it the more
you
you will feel comfortable with it and i
promise you
once you've played around with it like
if you've spent 30 minutes on this
you will after the class you will you
will get this
okay you will get this so
so that is uh if else if else operator
okay if else operator and
um so before i
before i enter class today let's spend
five more minutes
so what i want you to do is uh if you
have your xcode open
hopefully you do please
please follow my example here and i
write an if else statement
okay so you can you can just use this
example we can use the same example here
okay
so in your xcode please try to
write the if else and else if statement
and we'll spend five minutes on this
please keep your hand up if you have
completed this and
if you have if you have successfully
read the code
okay
okay um can you please keep your hand up
if uh if you manage to write this if
else block
cool well done well done well done guys
i've seen five
six of you get that done that is awesome
okay that is awesome seven numbers still
increasing can we get to eight
nine ten eight let's try anyone else yes
eight nine awesome good that's very good
okay um this is not considered to be
easy
um this is uh this uh this can be a
pretty hard because it's a new day it's
a new lab
it's a new ide new x code right uh
for some of you mac might even be a new
system and you are throwing into a new
environment you are throwing
to a new language and um if you feel a
bit overwhelming if you feel that
um it's a bit hard know that it's normal
okay no that's normal i just need to
keep keep calm
and then practice this again again um
and you you'll be fine okay you'll be
fine
both me and the professor we we're
always here to
we're we're always here to help you so
to recap today and i'll recap today uh
what we looked at uh first of all we
look at how the
lab is gonna work uh what are the
contents
going forward secondly we looked at how
to install the xcode
11 and 12. then we looked at how to
create a new playground file
finally we looked at how to write
variable constants
and fs conditional blocks within the
xcode
okay within the x code for the next lab
i'm gonna quickly for next lab i'm gonna
review this
and then are going to look at a few more
programming language features like
switch
and a function okay switch and a
function
and i'll also try to find some more
interesting examples
okay now before i end the class
uh if you have any question
unfortunately i can't hear
any of you right now but if you if you
have any question
please type it down and then uh please
send it to the uh please send it to us
the class
channel later uh and uh i'll get to
those questions
uh as soon as i can okay as soon as i
can
recording will be uploaded um after uh
after the class as soon as possible
uh as well and um uh i think
the the link the feedback uh yes uh
feedback
um plea uh i think the feedback link
uh should have already been sent or
maybe if it's not sent it will be sent
very very shortly
please please please help me by
submitting those feedback so that i know
whether to go faster or slower
with those classes and then
that way i can improve the teaching and
then make sure you learn the most
from these labs okay cool awesome and
that that is it that is everything for
today's lab
uh hopefully you've enjoyed it and i
will see you
uh next tuesday okay enjoy enjoy your
week
[Music]
you